The following is a list of all values of the "tense" attribute of EVENT elements. Each value is accompanied with the name of the tense in Portuguese and examples, using forms of the verb "fazer" ("do").

A few notes:

--Compound tenses with the auxiliary "ter" are not treated as PERFECTIVE aspect, but rather as separate tenses. In this case, as well as other cases of tenses involving more than one word token, the auxiliary forms are not inside the EVENT element. For instance, for "teria feito", only "feito" is inside EVENT tags, but its tense is annotated as "CC" ("condicional composto"); it is not annotated as a past participle:

      teria <EVENT tense="CC">feito</EVENT>

-- Mood is also included in these values, because there is not a perfect parallelism between different moods. For instance, indicative mood shows more tenses than subjunctive mood. Another motivating example: present subjunctive seems to be used very frequently for events that follow the DCT, present indicative not as much.

-- The construction involving forms of "ir" ("go") and an infinitive are treated like the compound tenses.
Note that they are often the translation of English constructions with "will", which are annotated as FUTURE tense in the original data. The special annotations for these periphrases with "ir" are intended to capture the future value of this construction. Example:

      vão <EVENT tense="IR-PI+INF">fazer</EVENT>

-- Passives are treated like in the original English corpus: the auxiliary verb is outside the EVENT element and only the participle is inside it, but the tense is that of the auxiliary. Whenever two examples are provided in the list of the tense values that is presented below, the second one is for the passive construction.

      é <EVENT tense="PI">feito</EVENT>

-- Similar constructions, but involving "estar" ("be"), are treated not very differently. In order to distinguish these constructions from passives with "ser", the constructions with "estar" are given dedicated tense values. These values are similar to the tense value of the auxiliary "estar", but they contain the suffix "+PPA".

      está <EVENT tense="PI+PPA">feito</EVENT>


The list of all tense values used in TimeBankPT is:

C
  Condicional
  Ex.: faria, seria feito
CC
  Condicional composto
  Ex.: teria feito, teria sido feito
FC
  Futuro do conjuntivo
  Ex.: fizer, for feito
FI:
  Futuro do indicativo
  Ex.: fará, será feito
FIC
  Futuro composto do indicativo
  Ex.: terá feito, terá sido feito
GER
  Gerúndio
  Ex.: fazendo, sendo feito
GERC
  Gerúndio composto
  Ex.: tendo feito, tendo sido feito
IMP
  Imperativo
  Ex.: faz, sê feito
INF
  Infinitivo
  Ex.: fazer, ser feito
INFC
  Infinitivo composto
  Ex.: ter feito, ter sido feito
INFF
  Infinitivo flexionado
  Ex.: fazer, ser feito (fazeres, etc.)
INFFC
  Infinitivo flexionado composto
  Ex.: ter feito, ter sido feito (teres feito, etc)
INF+PPA
  Verb "estar" in the "infinitivo" (INF) combined with a past participle form
  Ex.: está feito
IR-C+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "condicional" (C) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: iria fazer, iria ser feito
IR-FI+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "futuro do indicativo" (FI) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: irá fazer, irá ser feito
IR-INFF+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "infinitivo flexionado" (INFF) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: ir fazer, ir ser feito
IR-PC+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "presente do conjuntivo" (PC) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: vá fazer, vá ser feito
IR-PIC+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "pretérito imperfeito do conjuntivo" (PIC) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: fosse fazer, fosse ser feito
IR-PII+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "pretérito imperfeito do indicativo" (PII) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: ia fazer, ia ser feito
IR-PI+INF
  Verb "ir" in the "presente do indicativo" (PII) combined with an infinitive form
  Ex.: vai fazer, vai ser feito
MPCC
  Mais-que-perfeito composto do conjuntivo
  Ex.: tivesse feito, tivesse sido feito
MPI
  Mais-que-perfeito simples do indicativo
  Ex.: fizera, fora feito
MPIC
  Mais-que-perfeito composto do indicativo
  Ex.: tinha feito, tinha sido feito
NONE
  (used for non-verbs)
PC
  Presente do conjuntivo
  Ex.: faça, seja feito
PC+PPA
  Verb "estar" in the "presente do conjuntivo" (PC) combined with a past participle form
  Ex.: esteja feito
PI
  Presente do indicativo
  Ex.: faz, é feito
PIC
  Pretérito imperfeito do conjuntivo
  Ex.: fizesse, fosse feito
PII
  Pretérito imperfeito do indicativo
  Ex.: fazia, era feito
PII+PPA
  Verb "estar" in the "pretérito imperfeito do indicativo" (PII) combined with a past participle form
  Ex.: estava feito
PI+PPA
  Verb "estar" in the "presente do indicativo" (PII) combined with a past participle form
  Ex.: está feito
PPA
  Past participle form
  Ex.: feito
PPCC
  Pretérito perfeito composto do conjuntivo
  Ex.: tenha feito, tenha sido feito
PPI
  Pretérito perfeito simples do indicativo
  Ex.: fez, foi feito
PPIC
  Pretérito perfeito composto do indicativo
  Ex.: tem feito, tem sido feito
PPIC+PPA
  Verb "estar" in the "pretérito perfeito composto do indicativo" (PPIC) combined with a past participle form
  Ex.: tem estado feito
